---
title: "Iskra Delta Partner Graphics Programming, Part 2: Walk the Short Line"
tags: ["z80", "part time nerds", "iskra delta", "graphics", "programming", "assembly", "masterclass"]
---

# Iskra Delta Partner Graphics Programming, Part 2: Walk the Short Line

[oddbit-retro, 1.6.2023](https://oddbit-retro.org)

In the previous part, we developed a custom algorithm to efficiently convert drawings represented as single bytes per pixel into lines that can be readily drawn by the *Iskra Delta Partner*. While this approach works well for longer lines, it is not optimal for shorter ones.

When it comes to drawing smaller glyphs, such as system font characters, achieving optimal performance becomes crucial. Fortunately, the Iskra Delta Partner offers highly efficient commands specifically designed for drawing lines shorter than four pixels in length. In today's demonstration, we will showcase how to decompose a font into these specialized commands.

We can achieve this by mapping our problem into the graph space. We can perceive each point that needs to be drawn as a node in a graph, while the commands sent to the Graphics Display Processor (GDP) can be seen as edges with associated costs. By assigning costs in a way that reflects the relative speed of each command, we can prioritize faster commands over slower ones.

Our remaining task now entails identifying and implementing an appropriate graph algorithm that minimizes the cost of visiting all the pixels. Once we accomplish this, we will have arrived at our solution.

# The Traveling Salesman Problem

The *traveling salesman problem (TSP)* is an optimization problem that aims to find the shortest possible route for a salesman to visit a given set of cities and return to the starting point.

To utilize the TSP algorithm for our problem, we first need the ability to recognize a straight line from a group of pixels. While numerous algorithms, such as *Hough Transforms* or the *Douglas-Peucker algorithm*, can be employed for this purpose, given that we are working with a single bit per pixel image, a simpler algorithm can be devised instead.